add v8.1.1 release notes (#18537)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.1.1.md

---
title: TiDB 8.1.1 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.1.1.
---

# TiDB 8.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: August xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.1.1

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes

- When using TiDB Lightning to import a CSV file, if you set `strict-format = true` to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> - When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```
- Changed the default value of the variable tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill to false. [#55290](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55290) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

Author: added in [`d3b6b11` (#18537)](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/18537/commits/d3b6b114ddef6bf47113f1cfad9ab3c44e943a54)

        - Support setting Alibaba Cloud access credentials through environment variables [#45551](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45551) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads each SST file. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

    + TiCDC

        - Support sending BOOTSTRAP messages of all tables to the downstream in one go when a changefeed using Simple Protocol starts [#11315](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11315) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Support directly outputting raw events when the downstream is a Message Queue (MQ) or cloud storage [#11211](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11211) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the issue that `INDEX_HASH_JOIN` cannot exit properly when SQL is abnormally interrupted [#54688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54688) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

Reviewer: ```
- Fixed an issue where the HashAgg operator would produce incorrect query results when spilling to disk during parallel computation. [#55290](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55290) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

Author: added in [`7b6b751` (#18537)](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/18537/commits/7b6b751e14690fc3a187e1ade46d87b2cd60d47c)

>     - Fix the issue that `INDEX_HASH_JOIN` cannot exit properly when SQL is abnormally interrupted [#54688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54688) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the disk spill for the HashAgg operator causes incorrect query during parallel calculation
    - Fix the issue that `INDEX_HASH_JOIN` cannot exit properly when SQL is abnormally interrupted [#54688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54688) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
```

---
title: TiDB 8.1.1 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.1.1.
---

# TiDB 8.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: August xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.1.1

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes

- When using TiDB Lightning to import a CSV file, if you set `strict-format = true` to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> - When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
- When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
- Change the default value of the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) variable from `ON` to `OFF` to avoid disk spill causing incorrect query results. For clusters upgraded to v8.1.1 from v8.0.0 or v8.1.0, this variable will remain at its previous default value of `ON` after the upgrade, and it is recommended to manually change it to `OFF`. [#55290](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55290) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

    - Fix the issue that the network partition during adding indexes using the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) might cause inconsistent data indexes [#54897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54897) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that the error occurred during initialization of the TiDB Lightning physical import mode might cause resource leaks [#53659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53659) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Fix the issue that obtaining the column information using `information_schema.columns` returns warning 1356 when a subquery is used as a column definition in a view definition [#54343](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54343) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue that using index acceleration to add a unique index might cause a `Duplicate entry` error when the owner is switched [#49233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49233) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the unclear error message when setting `global.tidb_cloud_storage_uri` [#54096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54096) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>     - Fix the issue that `IndexRangeScan` on multi-value indexes does not support generating `Selection` [#55012](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55012) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

Author: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Note: Remove this line according to suggestion from @time-and-fate because this bug was introduced and fixed in v8.1.1. This bug does not exist in any versions that have been released. So no need to put it in release notes.

---
title: TiDB 8.1.1 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.1.1.
---

# TiDB 8.1.1 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.1.1

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes

> - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Compatibility changes - Must set the line terminator when using TiDB Lightning `strict-format` to import CSV files [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
- When using TiDB Lightning to import a CSV file, if you set `strict-format = true` to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
- When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Improvements> TiDB - By batch deleting TiFlash placement rules, improve the processing speed of data GC after performing the `TRUNCATE` or `DROP` operation on partitioned tables [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Improvements> TiDB - Remove stores without Regions during MPP load balancing [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Improvements> TiDB - Temporarily adjust the priority of statistics synchronously loading tasks to high to avoid widespread timeouts during TiKV high loads, as these timeouts might result in statistics not being loaded [#50332](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50332) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

+ PD <!--tw:hfxsd 1 条-->

>     - 改进 HTTP client 的重试逻辑 [#8142](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8142) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Improve the retry logic of the HTTP client [#8142](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8142) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
```

+ TiFlash

>     - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 改进提升> TiFlash - 降低 TiFlash 在开启 TLS 后因更新证书而导致 panic 的概率 [#8535](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8535) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

Author: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Mitigate the issue that TiFlash might panic due to updating certificates after TLS is enabled [#8535](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8535) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw:qiancai 1 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 增加 PITR 集成测试用例，覆盖对日志备份与添加索引加速功能的兼容性测试 [#51987](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51987) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Support encryption of temporary files generated during log backup [#15083](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15083) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Except for the `br log restore` subcommand, all other `br log` subcommands support skipping the loading of the TiDB `domain` data structure to reduce memory consumption [#52088](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52088) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Support setting Alibaba Cloud access credentials through environment variables [#45551](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45551) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

>         - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads SST files. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Support checking whether the disk space in TiKV is sufficient before TiKV downloads each SST file. If the space is insufficient, BR terminates the restore and returns an error [#17224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17224) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
```

    + TiCDC <!--tw:qiancai 1 条-->

        - 支持 simple protocol 在 changefeed 启动时一次性发送所有表的 Bootstrap 消息 [#11315](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11315) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Improvements> Tools> TiCDC - Support directly outputting raw events when the downstream is a Message Queue (MQ) or cloud storage [#11211](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11211) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB <!--tw:hfxsd 以下 7 条-->

>     - 修复了当 SQL 异常中断时，index_hash_join 无法正常退出的问题 [#54688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54688) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `INDEX_HASH_JOIN` cannot exit properly when SQL is abnormally interrupted [#54688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54688) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
```

>     - 禁止创建不是严格自增的 RANGE 分区表 [#54829](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54829) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - 禁止生成 _tidb_rowid 的 PointGet 执行计划，避免错误结果 [#54583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54583) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that RANGE partitioned tables can be created that are not strictly self-incrementing [#54829](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54829) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that PointGet execution plans for `_tidb_rowid` can be generated [#54583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54583) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     - 修复 slowlog 中内部语句中 SQL 默认被脱敏为空 [#54190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54190) [#52743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52743) [#53264](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53264) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that SQL statements in internal statements in the slow log are redacted to null by default [#54190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54190) [#52743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52743) [#53264](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53264) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>     - Fix the issue that PointGet execution plans for `_tidb_rowid` can be generated [#54583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54583) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `PointGet` execution plans for `_tidb_rowid` can be generated [#54583](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54583) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

>     - Fix the issue that SQL statements in internal statements in the slow log are redacted to null by default [#54190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54190) [#52743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52743) [#53264](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53264) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that internal SQL statements in the slow log are redacted to null by default [#54190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54190) [#52743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52743) [#53264](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53264) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that recursive CTE queries might result in invalid pointers [#54449](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54449) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the overflow issue of the `Longlong` type in predicates [#45783](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45783) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that indirect placeholder `?` references in a `GROUP BY` statement cannot find columns [#53872](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53872) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the memory used by transactions might be tracked multiple times [#53984](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53984) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that using `CURRENT_DATE()` as the default value for a column results in incorrect query results [#53746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53746) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - 修复使用全局排序添加索引时性能不稳定的问题 [#54147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54147) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复从 v7.1 升级后 show import jobs 报 unknow column summary 的问题 [#54241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54241) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - 修复 root 用户无法查询 tidb_mdl_view 的问题 [#53292](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53292) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--tw:lilin90 以下 8 条-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the performance is unstable when adding indexes using global sorting [#54147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54147) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW IMPORT JOBS` reports an error `Unknow column `summary`` after upgrading from v7.1 [#54241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54241) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that `root` user cannot query `tidb_mdl_view` [#53292](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53292) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--tw:lilin90 以下 8 条-->
```

>     - Fix the issue that the performance is unstable when adding indexes using global sorting [#54147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54147) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 2: Ref: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-global-sort
```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the performance is unstable when adding indexes using Global Sort [#54147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54147) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `SHOW IMPORT JOBS` reports an error `Unknow column `summary`` after upgrading from v7.1 [#54241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54241) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `SHOW IMPORT JOBS` reports an error `Unknown column 'summary'` after upgrading from v7.1 [#54241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54241) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    - Fix the issue that the network partition during adding indexes using the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) might cause inconsistent data indexes [#54897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54897) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix the issue that error occurred during initialization of the local backend might cause resource leaks [#53659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53659) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that error occurred during initialization of the TiDB Lightning physical import mode might cause resource leaks [#53659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53659) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

>     - Fix the issue that column information cannot be obtained using `information_schema.columns` when a subquery is used as a column definition in a view definition [#54343](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54343) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that obtaining the column information using `information_schema.columns` returns warning 1356 when a subquery is used as a column definition in a view definition [#54343](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54343) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    - Fix the issue that using index acceleration to add a unique index might cause a `Duplicate entry` error when the owner is switched [#49233](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49233) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the unclear error message when setting `global.tidb_cloud_storage_uri` [#54096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54096) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue that `IndexRangeScan` on multi-value indexes does not support generating `Selection` [#55012](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55012)@[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

>     - Fix the issue that the Sync Load QPS monitoring metric is displayed incorrectly [#53558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53558)@[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the Sync Load QPS monitoring metric is incorrect [#53558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53558)@[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `IndexRangeScan` on multi-value indexes does not support generating `Selection` [#55012](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55012)@[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
>     - Fix the issue that the Sync Load QPS monitoring metric is incorrect [#53558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53558)@[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `IndexRangeScan` on multi-value indexes does not support generating `Selection` [#55012](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55012) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that the Sync Load QPS monitoring metric is incorrect [#53558](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53558) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

    - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that the **gRPC request sources duration** metric is displayed incorrectly in the monitoring dashboard [#17133](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17133) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)
    - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that the output of the `raft region` command in tikv-ctl does not include the Region status information [#17037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17037) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that changing the `raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times` configuration item online might cause TiKV to panic [#17066](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17066) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Bug fixes> TiKV - Fix the issue that TiKV might repeatedly panic when applying a corrupted Raft data snapshot [#15292](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15292) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

>     - 修复 evict 未被持久化 entries 的问题 [#17040](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17040) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that releasing cache entries before they are persisted causes TiKV to panic [#17040](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17040) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
```

> + PD <!--tw:Oreoxmt 10 条-->

Author: ```suggestion
+ PD <!--tw:Oreoxmt 9 条-->
```

    - Fix the issue that an incorrect PD API is called when you retrieve table attributes [#55188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55188) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - Fix the issue that the time data type in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.RUNAWAY_WATCHES` table is incorrect [#54770](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54770) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that some logs are not redacted [#8419](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8419) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

>     - Fix the issue of missing data in the `Filter` monitoring item [#8098](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8098) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of missing data in the `Filter` monitoring metric [#8098](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8098) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

    - Fix the issue that the HTTP client might panic when TLS is enabled [#8237](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8237) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - Fix the issue that the encryption manager is not initialized before use [#8384](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8384) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

>     - Fix the issue that Resource Group could not effectively limit resource usage under high concurrency [#8435](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8435) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that resource groups could not effectively limit resource usage under high concurrency [#8435](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8435) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

    - Fix the data race issue related to `store limit` [#8253](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8253) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that the scaling progress is displayed incorrectly after the `scheduling` microservice is enabled [#8331](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8331) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

>     - Fix the issue that the TSO node could not be dynamically updated after the `tso` microservice is enabled [#8154](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8154) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TSO node is not dynamically updated after the `tso` microservice is enabled [#8154](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8154) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复写热点调度可能会违反放置策略 (placement policy) 约束的问题 [#7848](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7848) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复使用 Placement Rules 的情况下，down peer 可能无法恢复的问题 [#7808](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7808) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复取消资源组查询导致大量重试的问题 [#8217](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8217) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复 PD 在进行 operator 检查时遇到的数据竞争问题 [#8263](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8263) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复将角色 (role) 绑定到资源组时未报错的问题 [#54417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54417) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复将 TiKV 配置项 [`coprocessor.region-split-size`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-split-size) 设置为小于 1 MiB 的值会导致 PD panic 的问题 [#8323](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8323) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

+ TiFlash <!--tw:qiancai 1 条-->

>     - 修复 TiFlash 与任意 PD 发生网络分区后，可能导致读请求超时报错的问题 [#9243](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9243) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a network partition (network disconnection) between TiFlash and any PD might cause read request timeout errors [#9243](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9243) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that BR fails to restore a transactional KV cluster due to an empty `EndKey` [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that log backup might be paused after the advancer owner migration [#53561](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53561) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that DDLs requiring backfilling, such as `ADD INDEX` and `MODIFY COLUMN`, might not be correctly recovered during incremental restore [#54426](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54426) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Bug fixes> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that a PD connection failure could cause the TiDB instance where the log backup advancer owner is located to panic [#52597](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52597) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC <!--tw:qiancai 2 条-->

>         - 修复 region 变更导致下游 panic 的问题 [#17233](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17233) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
>         - 修复 当上游未启用新的排序规则时，TiCDC 无法正确解码具有聚集索引的表的主键的问题 [#11371](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11371)@[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Region changes cause downstream panic [#17233](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17233) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC fails to decode primary keys in clustered index tables correctly when the new collation is disabled in the upstream  [#11371](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11371)@[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC fails to decode primary keys in clustered index tables correctly when the new collation is disabled in the upstream  [#11371](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11371)@[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC fails to decode primary keys in clustered index tables correctly when the new collation is disabled in the upstream [#11371](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11371)@[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that data inconsistency might occur when restarting Changefeed repeatedly when performing a large number of `UPDATE` operations in a multi-node environment [#11219](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11219) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
        - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that the Processor module might get stuck when the downstream Kafka is inaccessible [#11340](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11340) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM) <!--tw:qiancai 2 条-->

        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that `SET` statements cause DM to panic during the migration of MariaDB data [#10206](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10206) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the connection blocking issue by upgrading `go-mysql` [#11041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11041) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>         - 修复当索引长度超过默认 max-index-length 时导致同步中断的问题 [#11459](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11459) @[michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng)
>         - 修复 schema tracker 无法正确处理 LIST 分区表的问题 [#11408](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11408) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)"

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that data replication is interrupted when the index length exceeds the default value of  `max-index-length` [#11459](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11459) @[michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng)
        - Fix the issue that schema tracker incorrectly handles LIST partition tables, causing DM errors [#11408](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11408) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)"
```

    + TiDB Lightning  <!--tw:qiancai 1 条-->

        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Fix the issue that the Region fetched from PD does not have a Leader when restoring data using BR or importing data using TiDB Lightning in physical import mode [#51124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51124) [#50501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50501) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - 修复 lightning 获取 keyspace name 时输出的 WARN 日志可能引起混淆的问题 [#54232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54232) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning outputs a confusing `WARN` log when the keyspace name is empty [#54232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54232) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
```

>         - Fix the issue that schema tracker incorrectly handles LIST partition tables, causing DM errors [#11408](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11408) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)"

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that schema tracker incorrectly handles LIST partition tables, causing DM errors [#11408](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11408) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning outputs a confusing `WARN` log when the keyspace name is empty [#54232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54232) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning outputs a confusing `WARN` log when it fails to obtain the keyspace name [#54232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54232) @[kennytm](https://github.com/kennytm)
```

    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Improvements> TiDB - Temporarily adjust the priority of statistics synchronously loading tasks to high to avoid widespread timeouts during TiKV high loads, as these timeouts might result in statistics not being loaded [#50332](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50332) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

+ PD <!--tw:hfxsd 1 条-->

    - Improve the retry logic of the HTTP client [#8142](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8142) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)

+ TiFlash

    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Mitigate the issue that TiFlash might panic due to updating certificates after TLS is enabled [#8535](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8535) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - (dup): release-7.5.3.md > Improvements> TiFlash - Reduce lock conflicts under highly concurrent data read operations and optimize short query performance [#9125](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9125) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw:qiancai 1 条-->

>         - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 增加 PITR 集成测试用例，覆盖对日志备份与添加索引加速功能的兼容性测试 [#51987](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51987) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: already included in https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/release-8.1.0

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM) <!--tw:qiancai 2 条-->

        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that `SET` statements cause DM to panic during the migration of MariaDB data [#10206](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10206) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - (dup): release-8.2.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the connection blocking issue by upgrading `go-mysql` [#11041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11041) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
        - Fix the issue that data replication is interrupted when the index length exceeds the default value of `max-index-length` [#11459](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11459) @[michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng)
        - Fix the issue that schema tracker incorrectly handles LIST partition tables, causing DM errors [#11408](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11408) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning  <!--tw:qiancai 1 条-->

>         - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Fix the issue that the Region fetched from PD does not have a Leader when restoring data using BR or importing data using TiDB Lightning in physical import mode [#51124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51124) [#50501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50501) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: already included in v8.1.0 [docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/release-8.1.0](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/release-8.1.0)

## Compatibility changes

- When using TiDB Lightning to import a CSV file, if you set `strict-format = true` to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
- When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

## Offline package changes

> In v8.1.0, `arbiter` is removed from the `TiDB-community-toolkit` [binary package](/binary-package.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In v8.1.1, `arbiter` is removed from the `TiDB-community-toolkit` [binary package](/binary-package.md).
```

## Compatibility changes

- When using TiDB Lightning to import a CSV file, if you set `strict-format = true` to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
- When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> - Change the default value of the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) variable from `ON` to `OFF` to avoid incorrect query results caused by disk spill during parallel calculation. For clusters upgraded to v8.1.1 from v8.0.0 or v8.1.0, this variable will remain at its previous default value of `ON` after the upgrade, and it is recommended to manually change it to `OFF`. [#55290](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55290) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Author: ```suggestion
- Change the default value of the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.1/system-variables#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) variable from `ON` to `OFF` to avoid incorrect query results caused by disk spill during parallel calculation. For clusters upgraded to v8.1.1 from v8.0.0 or v8.1.0, this variable will remain at its previous default value of `ON` after the upgrade, and it is recommended to manually change it to `OFF`. [#55290](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55290) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```
